All right guys, so in this particular
video let's code an authentication
system end to end, using
session based authentication.
I hope at this particular point.
You know what is a session
based authentication?
Why is it known as
stateful authentication?
And with that let's start
with the video.
So here I have made a simple
project that is
authentication session, right?
So this is what we are
going to use here.
And let's get started.
Okay, so, so first of all what I'm
going to do is I'm going to use PNPM
As my package manager.
So it's basically same as npm.
So if you search for pnpm, it's
basically a better version of npm.
Okay.
It works similar to npm
and everything is that, but it
is more fast, it has more
optimal and it caches.
So I would prefer that if
you can also use pnpm.
The installation is
very simple for pnpm.
So here you can see all
the installation steps.
For example, PowerShell
on Windows is there POSIX
systems are there, right?
And if you go down there is a Docker
container installation as well.
There is, if you go down there
is a core pack, installation.
So there are like all
the installations are there.
And this is the simplest one.
For example, you can just say
npm install hyphen g
PNPM at the rate latest.
That's it.
Okay.
No, no need to give the version name.
And you can even use
Homebrew if you are on Mac.
So basically you can use
PNPM as a replacement for npm.
So, so the command
goes like PNPM Init.
Basically this is same like npm init.
You can see I have a package JSON
file right now what we have to do is
we have to basically create an end
to end authentication system.
That means we need database,
we need all the routes.
So technically it's
an end to end thing.
Okay, so now we are going
to do PNPM install at the rate
types okay, slash node and add
the rate types express.
Okay, slash express
and save it as a dev dependency.
And don't forget to make 4x.
Okay.
So this ensures that we are
on the same version.
Nice.
Now we have to install express.
So I can just say pnpmi and I can
just say express at the rate 4x.
So this basically gives
me the express as well.
So now you can see in my package
JSON I have these dev dependencies.
And I have these dependencies.
Nice.
So let's get started
by creating an index js File.
Okay, so what I'm going to do
is I'm just going to say,
import something from express.
So basically I want to import
express from express, right?
Let's create
an application that is express.
Okay, that's nice.
And let's also get the port.
So let's say I want to run it
on process env port.
So if you give me an environment
variable named
port, I will use that.
But just in case you are
not giving me a port, let's
fall back to 8,000 port.
Yeah, so this one is nice.
Now we can just say app, listen on
this particular port and I can just
say console log, that server is
running on port Whichever port you
are running on, that is this
particular port.
So this is our basic
boilerplate code, right?
And let's also create a dummy route
that is app git, that is slash.
So I can just say request
response and return
a new response.JSON saying status.
Okay?
Okay.
So it's basically like
server is up and running.
So this is my basic boilerplate code.
Let's also configure a dev script,
okay, that is using the nodemon,
because I don't want to restart
the server again and again.
So I can just say pnpm install or I
can even use node hyphen hyphen Var.
Okay.
And I can just say index.
Right?
And similarly we can even have
a start script that is node index.
That's it.
So if I say pnpm dev and enter,
you can see that my server is
actually running on port 8000.
Nice.
Okay, so this is basically nice.
And one more thing, the warning
that is coming, it basically
says that, hey, can you
please add the type module?
Okay, so that everything is
up and running.
You can see now everything is
That's absolutely great.
Now we have to start
by adding a database.
So we are going to use Drizzle ORM.
So we have already talked
about Drizzle ORM.
So let's go into the JavaScript
and get started.
So what we want to do is
we want to use a new database
that is PostgreSQL.
We want to use basic file
structure is there.
So we have to follow the same thing.
Okay, so it says that what you can
do is you can have your schema ts.
So it's basically in typescript.
That is what they are telling you.
Result config TS is there.
So everything is there.
So what we need to do is let's
follow the same structure.
Okay, so what I'M going to do
is let's create a database.
Okay?
So I'll just create
a new folder that is db.
And inside the DB they recommend that
what you can do is you can have
something known as schema TS file.
So schema js in our case.
Okay, and let's also
create an index js file.
Nice.
So these two files, basically
I'm clubbing together.
I don't think so.
We need it.
So I have just made it.
So we will see it later.
Then we have to make
a drizzle config js file.
Okay.
Drizzle config js file.
So this is our drizzle file.
Now we have to say pnpm add
these things we have to add.
Okay, so that's fine.
We can just say pnpm add
drizzle, ORM, PG and env.
Now what you will notice is that
the pnpm is actually very fast.
And let's also add these things.
Okay, so I'm just saying enter
and we are good to go.
Nice.
Then what we have to do is we have to
make a database URL in a.env file.
So usually we always keep our
sensitive variables in a env file.
And this env file is never
ever pushed to the GitHub.
Okay?
So database URL, your passwords,
your tokens, everything
is stored in this env file.
So this URL we will,
create in a moment.
So what we can do is we have
to basically say we have
to create this configuration, right?
So we have to say import
this particular stuff.
I said, okay, see, I'm just copying
from the documentation.
Right?
Then we have to import drizzle,
okay, that is this particular thing.
And then we can say, oh,
by the way, this we have to do
in the DB file, not here.
Sorry, my bad.
We don't have to do it here.
We have to do it in the DB file.
Okay, so which one was the db?
In the index ts.
So that is this particular file.
Yeah, So I can just copy
this whole thing and,
and I can just paste in here.
So this is basically the thing
and don't need to put up this thing.
So DB instance and we can
just say export, default.
Okay.
Default the database.
Okay, so we can just export
the database from here.
Nice.
So what we have done is inside
the DB index file we have
made this initializer.
Now we can create a table.
Okay, so this table
thing we will take care later.
So drizzle.config file is
something I'm interested in.
So drizzle.config.GS file.
So let's import env.
Let's import
the define config function.
And what we have to say is
we have to export default
a configuration, right?
Now what this configuration
basically looks like is you have
to say, out folder which
is going to be dot result.
Where is your schema?
Okay, this is very important.
So I'll just say, hey, my schema is
in the dot slash DB slash schema dot
schema dot TS Sorry, js file.
So this is the file I am pointing to.
So just make sure that
the spellings are all right.
So schema js file dialect is
PostgreSQL that we are going
to use the PostgreSQL.
That is nice.
And database credentials, right?
So database credentials are here.
And process.env.database URL.
So this is your
drizzle configuration.
Well done.
Now what we have to do is basically,
okay, we can make a schema.
So inside the schema TS, this
particular file, what we could do is
we can import these things
from the result and I can basically
create a users table as it is.
So it's a good thing that
we are creating a users
table which has an id.
Okay, so what I will do is instead
of making it as an integer, I
would like to make it as a uuid.
That is okay, we will
see that in a while.
So name is there.
Age.
Age is something we don't need.
So we want to keep the email.
We will keep password
and all that stuff.
Okay, so one thing that I want
to change is that I
will basically get a uuid.
So I want to say that, hey,
you are a UUID primary.
And I can just say
default to be random.
Okay, so this makes more sense.
Nice.
Then user is going to have
a name which is of a, varchar.
Okay.
Variable Character length
is 255 and not null.
Email, length is this
not null and unique.
Then we can have a password,
okay, which is again a varchar.
Okay, we can have a varchar.
Or maybe we can have a text.
So let's take a text because I don't
want to enforce any limit on this.
So this can be text.
Okay.
And dot not null.
Right?
So this is basically not null.
Okay, now here is the thing.
See as a best practice, you should
never store plain passwords.
Okay?
You should never
store plain password.
Because see what happens if
your database is hacked?
What happens if someone hacks
your Database, what will happen?
Your password is leaked.
So ideally what we should do is we
should hash this password, right?
What we should do, we should hash
the password given by the user.
And, the best way to hash is we do
something known as salt hashing.
Okay.
We do something known as salt
hashing, which means for every
user, what we can do is we can
generate some random string.
Let's say a random strings.
Looks like ra.
Okay, six, five, three.
Something random.
Okay, I'm just, I'm just,
making a random string.
Let's say my password was piyush123.
So what we can do is instead
of hashing piyush123,
I can attach this random, salt.
Now hash this whole thing together,
and whatever the hash is
generated for these two things
that I can store as a password.
And don't forget to also store
the hashtag in the database.
So that means password
and salt will be stored.
So password is this.
Okay.
And I will also store assault,
for every user.
So that means we are going
to hash something based
on a secret key where this is
the password, this is a salt.
Okay.
This makes, you know,
password more secure.
Nice.
Then you can have.
I think these things are well
and good for a particular user.
Okay, so we have defined our schema.
That is really nice.
Our result configuration
is also there.
So now what we have to do, we have
to just say NPX result kit push.
Okay, but before that, before that,
we have to set up our database.
So to set up our database,
I would like to use Docker.
Okay, so Docker.
So it's very simple.
You have to first make sure
that Docker is up and running.
You have installed the Docker.
So you can just download
the Docker desktop using this.
And here is, you can see all
the installations and stuff.
So don't worry.
We will also attach an introductory
thing to what is Docker and stuff?
Okay, so make sure that
Docker is up and running.
So let me just,
you know, spin up my Docker.
So if I do enter.
Let's wait for some while.
All right, so my now Docker is
up and running on my machine.
Okay, so what I could do is if I
come here and I just say, docker.
P.S.
you can see that, yes, Docker
commands are running.
That means my Docker
is up and running.
Now let's create
a docker compose.yml file.
Okay, so docker
compose.yml file is here.
Now what we could do is we have
to just say services.
Okay, nice and inside the services,
what we have to do is we
have to spin up a postgres so
we can just search for postgres
on the docker and enter.
So you can see that this is
the official documentation, right?
How to use it.
You can see if I just
keep scrolling down.
Okay, so I can just say my database.
Okay, I can just say
I want to spin up a db.
Okay, My image is postgres.
Okay, you can say
just restart always.
Okay.
Just in case there is a crash.
And then in the environment,
okay, you have to basically
give the postgres password.
So let's say the postgres
password is postgres itself.
Or I can just say
the password is post.
I can just say my password.
Okay, this is your postgres password.
Of course, in the production you want
to use something more big password.
So that is okay, so postgres
password you have set up.
And also a postgres
user we can set up.
That is postgres.
So.
And don't forget
to do the port mapping.
So of course you want to also, you
know, you want to expose the ports.
So if you go on to the port mapping.
Okay, Ports.
So where is the ports thing?
Yeah, so, not this one.
So Postgres runs
on 5432 Port, by the way.
Anyway, if it is not suggesting
you, I'll tell you.
So one thing we can add here is
postgres db so let's say my database
name will be again postgres.
Okay, Then port supports.
It basically exposes
5432 port on 5432.
This means inside
the container on my host.
Okay, so this is how
basically it works.
Sorry, on my host,
inside the container.
And at the end we have
to give it a volume mapping.
Okay, so I can just say volumes
and we have to give a volume
mapping that is DB underscore data.
It is going to be a custom volume
that we are just going to create.
And you have to mount it
on/war/lib/postgresql/data.
Okay.
So now what I can do is I have
to basically create this volume.
So I can just say volumes.
Okay, Volumes and postgres DB data.
And that's it.
So this is the configuration.
There's no need to give this thing.
So we are creating a volume DB
data which we are mounting here.
And this basically spins
up a postgres container for me.
So I can just say docker compose
up hyphen D to run it
in the background.
So let's see now what happens.
It is basically pulling
the database that is Postgres
image is being pulled.
So Postgres image is getting pulled.
That is okay.
It's just 124mb.
Okay, so let's wait for a while.
Yeah.
So now you can see that my
container is up and running.
If I do a docker.
P.S.
you can see that.
Yes, it is up and running.
Right?
The postgres container is
up and running, and 5432 is
the port that is available.
Now, to construct this, we
can just say postgres.
This, this.
Okay.
What is your username, by the way?
Your username is postgres.
Okay?
So you can just say
postgres as your username.
What is your password?
Your password is my password, right?
You can just say my password
at the rate localhost port5432,
slash, whatever is your database.
So your database name is postgres.
So this is how you construct a,
a database URL.
Nice.
Now this database URL is set up.
That is absolutely great.
Now what we could do is if I
come back, you can just say
NPX Drizzle Kit push to push
the schema to your database.
Okay.
And there is one more thing,
by the way, if we go down, okay,
we don't need seeding
and all, there is something
known as Drizzle Kit Studio.
So you know what I like to do is
let me just copy this particular
command that is Drizzle Kit push
and inside the package or JSON,
let's configure these scripts.
So I can just say DB colon
push, Colon push
is basically this command.
And then I want to have
a command that is DB Studio.
Okay, so how to spin up a DB Studio?
Let's just search for the studio.
Okay, so drm, that is the studio.
So to do that, what you have
to basically do is,
Yeah, here is the thing.
Drizzle Kit Studio.
Okay, so I'll just copy
the command and paste it.
If I now say PNPM
DB colon 2 do and enter.
Okay, so you can see now this
particular thing is up and running.
I can just copy it.
Okay, I can just copy
and I can just open this particular
link in a new tab.
Okay, let's wait.
What happens?
So you can see that,
the Drizzle Kit Studio is running.
There is no table at all, zero
tables in the public schema.
So that means what we have
to do is we have to say pnpm
DB colon push and enter.
Now If I do a refresh here
you can see we have a users
table which is have ID name, email
password and salt
and there is no record at all.
Great, great stuff.
Okay, so our setup is
basically complete.
Now let's get started
by creating the routes.
Okay, so for that let's
create a folder for routes.
Okay.
And let's create a user do routes js.
Okay, so here I have to import
express from express.
Okay.
From express.
Nice.
Let's create a router
that is express dot router.
Nice.
Now what we can do.
Export default the router.
Now on this router,
what all do we need?
I want router dot get.
Okay, if you make a request
on slash, this returns who is
the current logged in user.
Okay, so that means let's say
there is no handler as
of now, but I can add a comment.
Returns current logged in user.
Good.
Similarly we can have a post.
This basically does a sign up.
Okay, sign up.
So let's create a sign up route.
Okay, nice.
Sign up route is there.
Then we can create a login route.
Okay, create a login route.
So this basically is the login route.
If you want to log in
and current user.
I think these are all good.
Okay, These all things are all good.
So let's get started
by creating the sign up route.
Okay, so let's start
by sign up route.
So this is going to be
an async function.
Okay.
Async request.
Sorry, request, response.
Now what I expect is that when you
are signing up you are going
to give me something in the body.
That is what you are
basically going to give me.
Your name, your email and a password
as a part of your body.
Nice.
Now see what we could do here is you
can of course have a validation that
password must be 8 characters long.
Right?
There should be numbers
in the password.
All that stuff we can do.
But okay, first things first,
you want to check if your database
already has this email or not.
Correct.
So what you could do is there
are multiple ways to do it.
Number one is that first
you try to query that do you
have an existing user?
So how, how we can do is I can
just say import DB from
okay dot dot slash db and also
you might want to import something
from dot dot DB slash schema.
Okay, slash schema.
And you want to import
the users table.
Now you can first make a check
for existing user that is await DB.
Select something from
you know, users table dot where.
Okay, now in the, where you can
just say okay, you can just
return an equals okay eq
Basically imported from the
drizzle ORM you can just say,
let me just make it into the new
line so that you can see this
these things clearly.
Okay, where equals what
I can just say where table.email
equals to the email.
So technically I'm trying to search
for an existing user and a.
I just want to query the email which
is basically users table dot email.
Now if you got the existing user.
Okay, if I got the existing user.
So I can just say return response
status code400.JSON saying
error as user with email.
Okay, let me just
make it as a string.
Literals.
Okay, Email.
This particular email already exists.
Done.
Now if it is not there, what you
want to do, you want to basically
create a new user, right?
If user does not exist, you
want to create a new user.
So to create a new, create
a user, I can just say await DB.
Insert okay, in which table
in the user table dot values.
Now see here is the thing.
You want to insert the name.
That's good.
You want to insert the email.
Now here is the thing.
You don't want to store
the password, right?
This is the wrong thing.
This particular step is a wrong step
because user is
giving you a plain password.
You don't want to store
that plain password.
So what we should do is first
of all we should generate a salt.
What is a gen, what is assault?
A random string.
A random bytes is
basically a salt, right?
So in node, how can you
generate some random string?
Okay, so if you go into the node
crypto module, crypto random, okay?
So this is a function
that you can use.
So crypto is there
random bytes is there?
So if I click here, okay, this
is the official documentation
of node js and I search for
random, okay, random bytes.
This is the one.
So you can see from node crypto
we can import random bytes.
So I can just say import
something from node crypto.
And this is a built
in module, by the way.
So here you have a function
that is random bytes.
So I can just say random bytes.
Okay, how much size I can like
for example, say256.
Then this generates random
bytes for me, okay?
And then I can just say
that, hey, I want to make it
tostring, okay, as a hex.
So this salt is now a string,
which is just a random string.
Now using this salt, we
can hash the password.
Hashed password equals.
How to do that?
So for this particular thing,
what you could do is now you
can basically do a hashing,
okay, how to Do a hashing.
So for that you have to search
for something known as.
So there is a documentation
where they use, I love cupcakes.
Exactly.
So you have to save create H mark.
Okay, this is a function again
coming from node crypto.
So I can just import create hmark.
Okay, so this created creates a hash.
So I can say create hmac.
Okay, which algorithm
do you want to use?
So there are multiple
hashing algorithms.
Let's say I will use Sh256.
Then what is your secret?
I say, hey, I want to use this salt.
Okay, that's great.
Then what do you want to update?
Okay, I can just say dot update.
What do you want to update?
The user's password.
Okay.
And then finally just give me
the hex version that is a string.
So now this is a hashed password.
Using this particular algorithm,
using this salt, okay, we
are updating the password.
And as a hexadecimal.
Now this password must be
stored as hashed password.
Really nice.
And you can also keep
this particular salt.
So this particular thing creates
a new user in the database.
Okay, so cost user equals to.
Then you can just say dot return.
Okay, what do you want to return?
I just want to return the ID which is
users, table.it
okay, so this user is basically.
So this is actually an array
which will always have one value.
So I can just destructure it.
Now I can just say return
response.status code 201.
Because you have created
a resource.JSON, i can just say
status success and I can just
send the data where I can have
the user ID to be user.id.
so this is what we can return.
Ideally we should directly
log in the user.
But.
Okay, so let's first test
our signup route.
So for that let me
spin up my postman.
So here is my postman.
Okay, you can see
here is the postman.
So in the postman what we can
do is let's try to sign up.
So as of now, you can see in my
Drizzle studio there is no user.
So my server should
be up and running.
Oh, by the way, we forgot
to register this route.
Right.
So I should basically do import
user router from
dot slash routes user routes.
And then I should basically say
hey app dot use.
If anything starts with
slash user, user, please use
this particular router.
Nice.
Now PNPM dev.
Okay, so we got an error,
that is on this particular thing.
It says that there is no
module by this name.
Okay, why is it so?
Let me just check.
Okay, let's give it a try again.
Oh, the error is actually
in the DB thing.
Okay, so from where this
particular error is coming,
let me just do a quick check,
directory import the db.
Okay, so the problem is actually
I think here,/index.js.
okay, yeah, so now you can
see everything is
up and running on port 8000.
So let's say HTTP local host 8000.
Let me just make a request.
Yes, the server is up and running.
So if I want to sign up user
sign up, is the route correct?
So basically the route is
if I go here/user/sign up.
Okay, so in the body I have
to give a raw JSON data.
And by the way, because now
you are handling the raw JSON data,
please make sure that
you have the middleware setup that
app.use express.JSON.
okay, so we have to send
few details, that is name.
Let's say piyush garg.
Okay, email I can send
piyushgar.devail.com Let me just
zoom in a little bit so
that you can see clearly.
And let me just close
this particular window.
So localhost8000 is okay, so body,
oh, here is the one.
Okay, so this one is also good.
And then I can just say password.
So password is going to be Piyush123.
Okay, let's do a send.
And we got an error that is 404.
So it says that this particular
route does not exist.
Yeah, of course, because it has
to be a post route send.
We got user with email piyushgar
uh.dev already exists.
Okay, now there is something
bad we have done here, right?
Why?
Let me just check.
Okay, because this is an array, we
should basically destructure it.
This was the problem.
Okay, now let's do a send.
You can see a user is created
with this particular id.
Nice.
If I go back to my database
and if I do a refresh now you
can see we have one user.
And if I just do a refresh here
you can see this is the user with
this particular ID name, email.
If you see closely, this
is my password, right?
Can you see that my password
is actually hashed?
This is what our password looks like.
And this is what my salt looks like.
So my Original password was
piyush123 but we have hashed it
to something this.
So this is basically your hashing.
Now no user or even a developer
can go into the database
and check for the password
because this is hashed password.
Nice.
That is what we wanted, right?
And this is basically what our
whole table structure looks like.
So this is also nice.
Now our signup is working fine.
If I again try to do a sign up,
you can see user with this
particular email already exists.
Nice.
Now what we should do, we
should also do the login.
Now login is what technically
see what will happen is when user
tries to log in, he has
to give me his email and password.
Now he will give you
a plain password, right?
What user remembers in his mind.
What you should do is first
of all you should search
for the email in the database
and retrieve the salt, right?
You have the salt and you have
the hash stored in the database.
If I take the user's plain password
using the salt, I again hash it.
And if this particular hash matches,
can I say the password is correct?
Because see, in hashing world
there is no concept of D hash.
Once a thing is hashed,
you cannot dehash it.
So what I can do is I can
repeat the algorithm, I can
take this password, use this
salt and again hash it.
If this new hash is actually equal
to the hash stored in
the database, that means yes, user
has entered the right password.
So that means in the login route what
we are going to do is let's say
we have request, we have response
and of course it has to be async.
So what we are going
to do is see number one.
Let's first get
the request body thing sorted.
So I can just say hey, from
the request body I want
to have email and password.
Okay?
Now you have to search
for this existing user.
So just copy the logic
and paste it here.
Now here is a thing.
If there is no existing user,
that means you have entered
an email which does not exist
in the database, right?
This is the wrong thing.
So return response.status
code that is 401.JSON.
Okay, and I can just send the error.
Let me just make it 400, okay?
In fact 404 makes more sense that
user with email.
This particular email does not exist.
You are trying to log in with
an email which does not exist.
But if the existing user is there.
Okay, let's take the salt.
So I have to query the salt
from users table dot salt.
Okay, so basically the existing salt
is basically existing user dot salt.
Also take the existing hash.
What is the existing hash?
You can basically query
the password here.
So I can just say password is
users table dot password.
So this is a hashed password, right?
We know that.
So existing user dot password.
Now let's create a new hash.
How to create a new hash.
What I am going to do is same thing,
just copy the same code.
See, just copy the same code.
This one.
That is create hmark code.
What I am going to do is I am
going to take your password
that you are giving me in the
request body and I am going to
use this salt and generate a
hash.
Nice.
Now what I can say is that, see,
if the new hash is not equals to.
Is not equals to the existing
hash, that means your
password is incorrect.
Okay, so we can just say
response.JSON saying 400.
Sorry, response.
Status.
Okay, so this should be
status.JSON saying error.
That ideally your
password is incorrect.
So incorrect password.
So this is your incorrect password.
But if the password
matches, you are here.
So technically here, generate
a session for user
and return the success
response response status.
Okay, So I can just say,
status success.
So this is basically my login.
Okay?
So right now we are not doing
any kind of session management.
But ideally this is the logic.
So that means now if I go back,
copy this, make a new request
post to the login.
Okay, Login.
What I'm going to do is raw JSON.
Let me just copy this JSON from here.
Now, technically, name
is not required.
Let me give an invalid email sent.
You're getting 404.
User with this particular
email does not exist.
Nice.
What if I give you A wrong password?
1 2, 3, 3.
Okay, 1 double 23.
It says incorrect password.
But if I give you the right password
and I do a send, I get a success.
So this is basically how
you are doing a login.
But technically this
is not login, right?
Login basically means
generating a session on the database
or generating a session.
So for that what I could do is
I can basically generate a session
for this particular user, right?
So session can be stored
in the database.
Great.
So what I could basically do is I
can just say I can create a new
table that is user, sessions, right?
I can just say PG table and name it
as like user underscore sessions.
Okay?
And then this basically.
And there I can just say, hey,
every session is going
to have a unique id.
This ID can be anything, right?
So I can just say it is
again going to be uuid.
This is session id.
Okay, Then I am going
to keep a, user id.
This particular thing
belongs to which user?
So I can just say uuid.
Okay, And I can basically say dot.
If you say unique, if you add
a unique here, which means
one user can only have one Session.
That means if he's logged in
from mobile, he cannot log in
from laptop because one user
can only have one session.
But no, we want that.
Okay, you can log in
from multiple devices.
UUID is okay, I can
just say references.
I have to make a reference here.
How to make a reference?
I can just say, hey, this particular
thing in the users table.id
so this is a foreign key.
Okay.
And also make it not
nullable, not null.
Nice.
And you can also keep created
at that when this particular
session was created.
Right?
You want to store that if this
session is only valid for, let's say
10 minutes, you want to invalidate
this session after 10 minutes.
So you should also keep this thing.
So I can just say created at
is actually a timestamp.
Okay, so let's just keep a timestamp.
Okay dot DEFAULT is now and not null.
Nice.
So this is your sessions table.
Now because you have made
a new table, you have to say pnpmdb
Colon, push and enter.
So now you can see if I go into
my studio and I do a refresh.
Now I have user sessions
now on login.
What you should do now
tell me the logic.
Okay, you have to search
for the logic.
I have to basically
create a new session.
Okay, how to create a new
session, I can just say await.
In the users table, I can just
say user session, User session.
So I can just say user sessions.
Insert sorry, DB.
Insert into user session.
Values.
So I have to just say user ID, which
is whichever user tried to log in.
Right?
That is this user.
So I can just give it an ID.
Also that is user table.id.
so I can just say existing user.id.
and when this particular
session is created, you want
to say dot returning.
Okay, I can just name it as id,
that is user sessions dot id.
Once a session is created,
you can just send this session
ID as session id.
Now, best thing is to actually
also create a cookie.
Okay, now what is a cookie?
Cookie is basically what you could
do is like you can store some extra
information on the user's browser.
But okay, as of now, let's say
that you have created a token,
a session id, a token for him.
And now this particular
token is sent to the user.
Now every time he wants to get some
resource from the backend, he has to
it give back the session id.
So if that user is having
that session id, that
means he is logged in.
That's it.
Okay, so we can just say pnpm
dev again to start the server.
Now Let me just try to log in again.
Oh, nice.
I got a session id.
So this is my session id.
Okay?
So that means if I do a refresh,
you can see that, you know,
this particular user,
this particular user has a session.
So this user has how many sessions?
As of now, only one session.
Right.
That means he's logged in from
one device, which is this user.
Piyushkar.
Nice.
Very nice.
So that means if a session exists, if
he has a session id, he's locked in.
Now, you have successfully
done one thing.
That is how to sign up a user, how
to log in, a user.
Now, the problem is how
to detect that if the current.
Who is the current user?
Right.
How this backend will know
who is the current user.
So for that, we are going
to create a middleware.
So for that, we, have.
We will continue this particular
project in the next particular
video, because I think this
video is already long enough.
So let's meet you in the next video.